public-site/src/notes/topic-ideas.md, before:

---
title: "Writing Ideas"
---

If you found this page, you're in for a treat! I'm just collecting ideas to write about, maybe. If you think I should expand on them, [let me know](https://twitter.com/drpoindexter)!

## Running list of topic ideas

- AWS Root mfa, use hardware not virtual, and why they are very different
- AWS vampire costs, unattached eip, ebs volumes, etc
- Billing alerts, budgets, and real-world examples
- Delete your default vpcs in aws
- Docker latest is dangerous
- Docker utility containers
- Docker bootstrapping containers
- Why is it called AWS EC2 but called Amazon Chime?
- AWS certification process, what it looks like, and what can you share if you do get a certification?

## Running list of things I could write, but don't wanna

- Why AWS? (Why not 'Y')
- Why React? (Why not 'Y')
- Why Gatsby? (Why not 'Y')
- Why Graphql? (Why not 'Y')
- Why MacOS? (Why not 'Y')
- Why VS Code? (Why not 'Y')
- Why custom keyboards? (Why not 'Y')
- Why no green screen?
- Why no stream alerts?
- Why no stream overlays?
- Why consulting?
- Why no college degree?

Commit message:

Add add new ideas, not about gmail alias

public-site/src/notes/topic-ideas.md, after:

---
title: "Writing Ideas"
---

If you found this page, you're in for a treat! I'm just collecting ideas to write about, maybe. If you think I should expand on them, [let me know](https://twitter.com/drpoindexter)!

## Running list of topic ideas

- [ ] Terraform deprecation of quotes with interpolation and depends_on lists
- [x] AWS email addresses (plus aliases for multi-account), make sure you can be reached, they will suspend an account if they suspect suspicious activity or it appears to endanger other accounts and resources. Link to Jacob for more info about other plus alias features and gmail hacks https://www.jacobbolda.com/gmail-productivity-hacks/
- [ ] AWS Root MFA, use hardware not virtual, and why they are very different (and this is supported by AWS Config)
- [ ] Make "resource limits" required checkbox pre-production (autoscaling, ec2 types)
- [ ] DR mistakes: Not all regions support all features (instance types, etc)
- [ ] AWS vampire costs, unattached eip, ebs volumes, etc
- [ ] Billing alerts, budgets, and real-world examples
- [ ] Delete your default vpcs in aws
- [ ] Docker latest is dangerous
- [ ] Docker utility containers
- [ ] Docker bootstrapping containers
- [ ] Why is it called AWS EC2 but called Amazon Chime?
- [ ] AWS certification process, what it looks like, and what can you share if you do get a certification?
- [ ] Is terraform for AWS only?
